---
title: "Workshop 2017"
bg: white
color: black
emph: blue
style: justify
---

# Workshop at NIPS 2017

The first Black in AI event will be co-located with [NIPS 2017](https://nips.cc/) in the __Pike Ballroom__ at the [Renaissance Long Beach Hotel](http://www.marriott.com/hotels/travel/lgbrn-renaissance-long-beach-hotel)  in Long Beach, California on December 8th from 1:00pm to 6:00pm. The poster session will be held at the __Broadlind 2__ room on the second floor of the Renaissance hotel. The workshop will be followed by dinner 6:30-8:30. We invite Black AI researchers from around the world to share their work and learn about others’ research. The workshop will have invited talks from prominent researchers, oral presentations, and a poster session. There will also be socials to facilitate networking, discussion of different career opportunities in AI, and sharing of ideas to increase participation of Black researchers in the field. We invite all Black researchers, including undergraduates, graduate students, faculty, and researchers in industry to participate in this workshop. People of all races are also invited to attend the workshop to learn about the research being conducted by Black researchers across the world. Deadline for registration is October 31, 2017 and can done [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfxDyUB0z--LwPNfK9ypOmNPMHf2wc51DuqSvituMtD53mGbA/viewform). Please register as soon as possible to help us figure out headcount.

# CFP 2017

## Important Dates
 - October 13, 2017: Abstract submission deadline
 - October 13, 2017: Travel grant application deadline
 - October 29, 2017: Notification of acceptance
 - October 31, 2017: Workshop registration deadline
 - December 8th from 1:00pm-5:30pm: Workshop
 - December 8th from 6:30pm-9:00pm: Dinner

## Submission Instructions
We welcome theoretical, empirical, and applied work in machine learning and artificial intelligence, including, but not limited to, search, planning, knowledge representation, reasoning, natural language processing, computer vision, robotics, multiagent systems, statistical reasoning, and deep learning. Work may be previously published, completed, or ongoing. Submissions will be peer-reviewed by at least 2 reviewers. The workshop will not publish proceedings. The presenter must be a Black researcher in AI, and does not need to be first author.

Submissions can be up to two page abstracts and must state the research problem, motivation, and technical contribution. Submissions must be self-contained and include all figures, tables, and references.

 - Submission page: [Black in AI CMT Page](https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/BLACKINAI2017)
 - Travel Grants: In order to be considered for a travel grant, please select yes to the question Do you need a travel grant?

## Travel Awards
Need-based travel grants will be awarded to workshop participants. The travel grant can be used for covering costs associated with the workshop such as NIPS registration, accommodation and travel. Please note that the travel grants may not cover all of your costs and we may not be able to award them to all applicants. The amount of money we award to each person will depend on the number of applicants and the location each applicant will be traveling from.

If you are a student who has not conducted research and would like a travel grant to attend our workshop, you may do so by either:

 1. Submitting an abstract, and a paragraph describing financial need on the conference submission page OR
 2. Submitting a one page statement describing your research interests in AI and reasons for participating in the workshop, and a paragraph describing financial need on the conference submission page


These must be done by the deadline, __October 13, 2017__.

# Program
__Location:__ __Pike Ballroom__, [Renaissance Long Beach Hotel](http://www.marriott.com/hotels/travel/lgbrn-renaissance-long-beach-hotel)  
__Date:__ December 8th, 2017  
__Workshop:__ 1:00pm-6:00pm  
__Dinner:__ 6:30pm-8:30pm

## Schedule
1:00 - 1:05 pm   __Introduction__
<br>
1:05 - 1:25 pm   __Keynote__ - Leveraging Machine Learning, Low Cost Devices and Open Science for Impact in the Developing World: An Example In Ecology
{% assign sp = site.speakers | where:"display", "Ciira Maina, Dedan Kimathi University of Technology" | first %}
{{sp.output}}
1:25 - 1:55 pm   __Oral Session 1__
{% assign sp = site.speakers | where:"display",  "Bonolo Mathibel, IBM Research Africa"  | first %}
{{sp.output}}
{% assign sp = site.speakers | where:"display",  "George W Musumba, Dedan Kimathi University of Technology"  | first %}
{{sp.output}}
{% assign sp = site.speakers | where:"display",  "Charles Onu, McGill University"  | first %}
{{sp.output}}

1:55 - 2:15 pm   __Keynote__ - Machine learning for personalised health
{% assign sp = site.speakers | where:"display", "Danielle Belgrave, Microsoft Research" | first %}
{{sp.output}}
2:15 - 4:15 pm   __Poster Session and Coffee Break__: Location - Broadlind 2 (2nd floor) and Pike Ballroom (1st floor)
{% assign sp = site.speakers | where:"display", "Accepted Posters" | first %}
{{sp.output}}
4:15 - 4:35pm    __Keynote__ - How to automate the creation of software
{% assign sp = site.speakers | where:"display", "Debo Olaosebikan, Gigster" | first %}
{{sp.output}}
4:35 - 5:05 pm   __Oral Session 2__
{% assign sp = site.speakers | where:"display",  "Ousmane Dia, ElementAI"  | first %}
{{sp.output}}
{% assign sp = site.speakers | where:"display",  "Adji Bousso Dieng, Columbia University"  | first %}
{{sp.output}}
{% assign sp = site.speakers | where:"display",  "Flora Ponjou Tasse, University of Cambridge"  | first %}
{{sp.output}}
5:05 - 5:25 pm   __Keynote__ - Disability and Innovation: the benefits of universal design
{% assign sp = site.speakers | where:"display", "Haben Girma, Harvard Law School" | first %}
{{sp.output}}
5:25 - 5:55 pm   __Panel__
<br>
5:55 - 6:00 pm   __Closing Remarks__
<br>
6:30 - 9:00pm    __Dinner_,_
<br><br>

## Dinner Speakers

{% assign sp = site.speakers | where:"display", "Nyalleng Moorosi, CSIR" | first %}
{{sp.output}}

{% assign sp = site.speakers | where:"display", "Simon Osindero, DeepMind" | first %}
{{sp.output}}
